
roach-works (tumblr): I think ultimately you  become whoever would have saved you that time no one did

>"My trigger event…you know what it was, right?" She asked and he nodded. She made herself talk about it anyway. "I got shoved into a locker full of things they had to haul away in biohazard bags. Trapped inside when just the sight and smell had already made me throw up all over myself. Except it wasn't the sight or the smell or even being trapped inside that made me trigger, not really. It's the fact that someone was willing to do _all that_, willing to get their hands _that dirty_, because they just hated me _that much_, but out of an entire hallway of people, no one could be bothered to help me. They all just let it happen. Charlotte…Charlotte said Emma interfered. Pressured them, maybe even threatened to bully them, too. But even then, how could you see something like that happen and just…just go on with your life? They all went home afterwards, presumably. Ate dinner with their family. Came back to school the next day while I was still in the hospital. And what happened to me meant nothing to any of them, not even enough to report anonymously? By the time I got back, everyone was already acting normally, if seeing what happened to me had changed anything to begin with. I didn't have any _friends_, but I was still in class, most of the time. People would hand me papers. Partner up with me. Talk around me, if not at me. Like nothing ever happened. I meant that little to them? So little that saving me from _that_ wasn't worth getting on the bad side of the popular girls in school?" 
>She bit her lip for a minute.  
>
>"I still don't understand it. I don't _want_ to understand it. I've had people tell me that I'm running from those days, from the powerlessness I felt. Maybe it's even true, to a point. But only to a point," Taylor said. "But if I'm running from anything, it's that crowd. Emma made me feel miserable and ugly, but that crowd is what made me feel like a bug. I won't let myself be that girl in the locker again—but I'd rather be the girl in the locker than the people who did _nothing_. I…I know even my friends thought I was obsessed over Dinah, but I don't understand how they could do what they did, how they could even think it. How they could just…walk away. Just pretend that it's alright, pretend that it's normal, and go about their day—never mind the fact that there's a child who had no one else to turn to, who's suffering they were profiting on."  
>
>"It's because if you think that way about everyone, you'll go mad," Tongfeng murmured. "You'll break yourself if you try to save everyone. Have you ever heard the story of Guanyin? She tried to hear the pleas of everyone in existence, and her head split into eleven pieces. Tried to reach for them all and her arms were torn into thousands of pieces. If that's what happened to a Bodhissattva, imagine what would happen to anyone else."  
>
>"…I think I'm okay with that," Taylor said. "Breaking apart or going mad both sound better than doing nothing."
>
> -- Ryuugi [^1]

> And there was something else. Once, she'd wondered how her friends could turn away after seeing Dinah's plight and just…let a girl's suffering slide. They'd _told_ her, of course; Brian had even explained his reasoning to her, but it had been like he was speaking a different language. He'd had Aisha to take care of, they'd all had things they cared about, and Dinah was just something to put aside, a means to that end. And she hadn't understood that then, hadn't _wanted_ to understand it, but maybe she did a little now. The girl who could throw it all away for someone she'd only just met, who could walk away from everything she cared about and ride that train straight to the end of the world, to losing her mind and everything else to do something no one would ever thank her for—she'd been that girl. And she didn't regret _being_ that girl. 
> 
> But she couldn't be that girl again. Because that girl grew up and had a _daughter_ now, a girl she had to come home to and take care of. That girl remembered how it had felt when _her_ mother _didn't_ come home, and couldn't inflict that on another child for the world. That girl had a job and hobbies and things she was looking forward to; book series she was following, games she was waiting to come out, places she wanted to eat, and a life she couldn't leave behind. A daughter she wanted to watch grow up and graduate, a thesis that may change the world or go completely unnoticed but which she wanted to finish for her own sake regardless.  
> 
> Was that _growth_? It didn't _feel_ like growth, didn't feel like she'd become older and wiser and _better_, knowing that the person who'd given so much of herself to save the girl and save the world was gone, because now there was a girl who was her world. She didn't feel more _heroic_, knowing that the fate of the rest of the world needed to fit into the context of her getting home and seeing her daughter again and having a life. She felt guilty, if anything, like she was being selfish—but a part of her wondered now if maybe that wasn't fair, if it was wrong to judge people for having things they couldn't give up, if maybe Dinah wasn't a fair comparison, or a _kind_ one, especially to herself. She didn't plan turn away from a situation like that, even putting aside her new powers, because when she got home to her daughter, she wanted to be able to look at her, too. But…she'd changed. She understood things that had seemed incomprehensible to her once. She'd see the costs of all the battles that she'd lost, and the costs of the ones she'd won, and there were things she couldn't do anymore. And…she was happy now. And she wanted to hold on to that happiness.  
> 
> *I could be the strongest hero or the greatest villain, she thought. I could be a wheel-turning queen or the scarab rolling the sun across the sky, my word law and my will making the whole world go round. I could play the part and play the game. But I just couldn't give less of a damn.*
>
> -- Ryuugi [^2]


[^1]: [Sect. Interlude Seven: Eight-Bow Friends](https://forums.spacebattles.com/threads/worm-xianxia-sect.989803/page-742#post-94591887)
[^2]: [Sect, Cut X.5out](https://forums.spacebattles.com/threads/worm-xianxia-sect.989803/page-1199#post-104922274)

